## Pipe

To understand Effect, we first need to understand function composition. Now, if you have no idea what function composition is, don't worry, you most definitely have used it in the past without really knowing. 

Function composition, in simple terms, is the process of combining two or more functions to create a new function.

You've definitely encountered this type of composition before:

```ts
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6].map((x) => x * 2).filter((x) => x % 3 === 0).reduce((acc, x) => acc + x, 0);
```

This is a pipe implemented via method chaining. The output of each method becomes the input for the subsequent method.

However, pipes aren't bound solely to iterables. In fact, you can pipe absolutely anything. If you cast your mind back to your high school math classes, you might remember seeing something like:

```
f(g(x))
```

This is function composition in its purest form - where the output of one function (g) becomes the input of another (f).

Effect comes with its own `pipe` function:

```ts
import { pipe } from "effect"

pipe(
  5,
  (input) => input + 10,
  (input) => console.log(input)
)
```

As you can see, `5` is the initial value of the pipe, and thus it becomes the input for the next function.

We then have two inline functions. The first takes in `input` and adds `10`, which means 15 will now be the input of the last function.

This will log `15` to the console.

Now, something obvious, but still important to highlight, is that the input you get from a previous function doesn't need to be used. It can be omitted entirely, you can derive a new output, as we did in the previous example, or we can replace it entirely:

```ts
import { pipe } from "effect"

const result = pipe(
  5,
  () => "Hello",
  (input) => input, // string
);

result; // string
```

Now, the result will be `"Hello"`. The type will be `string`, but we can narrow it down if we want:

```ts
import { pipe } from "effect"

const result = pipe(
  5,
  () => "Hello" as const,
  (input) => input, // "Hello"
);

result; // "Hello"
```

But, how does this `pipe` function work? At least at the type level? Let's check it out:

```ts
export function pipe<A>(a: A): A
export function pipe<A, B>(a: A, ab: (a: A) => B): B
export function pipe<A, B, C>(a: A, ab: (a: A) => B, bc: (b: B) => C): C
export function pipe<A, B, C, D>(a: A, ab: (a: A) => B, bc: (b: B) => C, cd: (c: C) => D): D
export function pipe<A, B, C, D, E>(
  a: A,
  ab: (a: A) => B,
  bc: (b: B) => C,
  cd: (c: C) => D,
  de: (d: D) => E
): E
// ...
```

As you can see, it has quite some overloads. And this is just a small portion of it...

Let's go one by one. Let's start with the first overload:

```ts
export function pipe<A>(a: A): A
```

As you can see, it starts with `a` (assigned to `A`), and outputs `a`. So, via generics, we maintain the same type, and since we're not composing anything, we're just going to get back `a` as-is.

What about the second overload?

```ts
export function pipe<A, B>(a: A, ab: (a: A) => B): B
```

The initial value `A` is passed to the second argument, meaning that `A` now becomes the input for the second argument, and the output will be `B` - a new value you define. And at last, the `pipe` returns `B`.

Let's now take a look at the third overload:

```ts
export function pipe<A, B, C>(a: A, ab: (a: A) => B, bc: (b: B) => C): C
```

The same logic applies. We start with `A`, then the second argument is a function that takes `A` and outputs `B`, and the third takes `B` and outputs `C`.

And this extends on and on with many more overloads.

Now, the great thing about function composition is that it inherently promotes modular code, so, instead of doing this:

```ts
import { pipe } from "effect"

pipe(
  5,
  (input) => input + 10,
  (input) => console.log(input)
)
```

We can define our functions separately:

```ts
import { pipe } from "effect"

const add10 = (x: number) => x + 10
const logNumber = (x: number) => console.log(x)

pipe(
  5,
  add10,
  logNumber
)
```

Now, our code is more modular and easier to test and reuse.

## Flow

Another useful operation for function composition is `flow`. While `pipe` takes an initial value, followed by a series of functions, `flow` combines functions without applying them to a value immediately:

```ts
import { flow } from "effect"

const processNumber = flow(
  (x: number) => x + 10,
  (x: number) => x * 2,
  (x: number) => `The result is ${x}`
)

console.log(processNumber(5)) // Outputs: "The result is 30"
```

Here, `flow` creates a new function that, when called, will apply each of the composed functions in order. This means that `flow` is inherently lazy, meaning that the computation will be deferred until it is actually needed, since you need to invoke it to do the computation. This is in contrast to `pipe`, where, at least in our example, the execution is eager.

Now, don't get me wrong, `pipe` can be lazy, since it ultimately depends on what you're composing. If what you're composing is lazy by nature, then the `pipe` will not be eager. Same with flow.

> go to source code

```ts
 * Performs left-to-right function composition. The first argument may have any arity, the remaining arguments must be unary.
```

As we can see, `flow` performs left-to-right function composition, which is exactly the same as `pipe`. The difference is that the first argument may have **any** arity, and the remaining arguments must be unary.

Now, what do we mean by "arity" and "unary"? Well, arity simply refers to the number of arguments a function takes. A unary function is a function that takes exactly one argument. So, in the context of `flow`, the first function can take any number of arguments, but all subsequent functions must take exactly one argument.

> show first overload

```ts
export function flow<A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(ab: (...a: A) => B): (...a: A) => B
```

As we can see, `ab` is the first function, and since it can have any arity, it uses the rest parameter. Now, as I said, `flow` returns a function that takes in the input, instead of receiving the input as the first value in the `pipe`. That's why the first argument is a function that takes in whatever arguments you want of type `A`, and produces `B`. Where does the input come from? Well, from the function that `flow` returns.

The second overload might be a little clearer:

```ts
export function flow<A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B, C>(ab: (...a: A) => B, bc: (b: B) => C): (...a: A) => C
```

As we can see, it returns a function that takes in `A`, which is passed as the input for the first argument, and the first argument returns `B`, which is then passed over to the second argument. Notice how the second argument has an arity of unary, meaning it takes exactly one argument.