An `Effect` is composed of the following:

```ts
Effect.Effect<A, E, R>;
```

- `A` represents the success channel.
- `E` represents the error channel.
- `R` represents the requirements channel (context management/dependency injection).

This means that an `Effect` treats errors as values, rather than traditional exceptions that must be caught when executing a function that can fail.

Let's take this function, for example:

```ts
function divide(a: number, b: number): number {
  if (a === 0 || b === 0) throw new Error("Can't divide by zero");
  return a / b;
}
```

How can we represent this with `Effect`?

Well, all we need to do is use `Effect.fail` and `Effect.succeed`. As the method names indicate, `Effect.succeed` will pass the type to the success channel `Effect.Effect<A>`, and `Effect.fail` to the error channel `Effect.Effect<_, E>`:

```ts
import { Effect } from "effect"

function divide(a: number, b: number): Effect.Effect<number, Error, never> {
  if (a === 0 || b === 0) return Effect.fail(new Error("Can't divide by zero"))
  return Effect.succeed(a / b)
}

console.log(divide(1, 2))
```

This is the type of `succeed`:

```ts
export const succeed: <A>(value: A) => Effect<A> = core.succeed
```

As we can see, it simply returns an `Effect<A>`. It infers the data type with generics for `value` and assigns it to the first parameter of the `Effect` generic.

And this is the type of `fail`:

```ts
export const fail: <E>(error: E) => Effect<never, E> = core.fail
```

As we can see, `fail` can never succeed (logically), therefore the success channel is `never`. It also infers the type `E` with the `error` argument.

When calling `console.log(divide(1, 2));`, it will print:

```json
{
  _id: 'Exit',
  _tag: 'Success',
  value: 0.5
}
```

However, if you try to do:

```ts
const result = divide(1, 2);
result.value;
```

TypeScript will indicate that `value` doesn't exist in `result`. This is because:

1. The `Effect` type doesn't expose `value` as a public property.
2. The object you see when logging is a result of internal `toJSON` method.
3. Effect is designed to encapsulate its internal state and encourage use of its functional API.

If we quickly take a look at its internals, `core.succeed` creates an `EffectPrimitiveSuccess`, which is the class that describes a successful value in Effect:

```ts
export const succeed = <A>(value: A): Effect.Effect<A> => {  
  const effect = new EffectPrimitiveSuccess(OpCodes.OP_SUCCESS) as any  
  effect.effect_instruction_i0 = value  
  return effect  
}
```

The class has a getter for value:

```ts
get value() {  
  return this.effect_instruction_i0  
}
```

So, from what we can see, we can deduce that the success value `5` is assigned to `effect_instruction_i0`, which is also used in its `toJSON` method:

```ts
toJSON() {  
  return {  
    _id: "Exit",  
    _tag: this._op,  
    value: toJSON(this.value)
}}
```

This is why we get the following output:

```ts
{
  _id: 'Exit',
  _tag: 'Success',
  value: 0.5
}
```